---
title: Textron Systems Awarded Contract From Defense Innovation Unit (DIU) To Provide
  Tsunami® USVS To Southcom And U.S. Navy Fourth Fleet
url: https://www.textron.com/content/textron-systems-awarded-contract-defense-innovation-unit-diu-provide-tsunamir-usvs-southcom
date: '2026-04-30'
author: admin
feed_url: http://www.textron.com/rss.xml
---
Textron Systems Awarded Contract From Defense Innovation Unit (DIU) To Provide Tsunami® USVS To Southcom And U.S. Navy Fourth Fleet Article Description <h2 class="pr_releasetitle">Textron Systems Awarded Contract From Defense Innovation Unit (DIU) To Provide Tsunami&reg; USVS To Southcom And U.S. Navy Fourth Fleet</h2><p><strong>HUNT VALLEY, Md., April 30, 2026 &ndash;</strong> Textron Systems Corporation, a Textron Inc. (NYSE:TXT) company, announced today a contract award from the Defense Innovation Unit (DIU) to produce and deliver multiple TSUNAMI<sup>&reg;</sup> Uncrewed Surface Vessels (USVs), which will be used to support the U.S. Navy Fleet Experimentation (FLEX) exercise in Key West, Florida and provide three months of joint operations with SOUTHCOM and the U.S. Navy Fourth Fleet.</p> <p>Under the contract, Textron Systems will provide the long dwell TSUNAMI interceptor USVs and Field Service Representatives (FSRs) to the FLEX exercise, demonstrating cooperative intelligence, surveillance reconnaissance and targeting (ISR-T) with its Aerosonde<sup>&reg;</sup> 4.7 VTOL UAS off a Littoral Combat Ship (LCS). The exercise will also demonstrate manned-unmanned surface warfare with Invariant Corporation&rsquo;s Surface-to-Air Kinetic Engagement (STAKE) system.</p> <p>The TSUNAMI family of autonomous maritime surface vessels are designed to meet the needs of the U.S. Navy and its allies for a readily available, versatile portfolio of multi-mission uncrewed assets to team effectively across the fleet. Utilizing Brunswick Corporation&rsquo;s reliable, high-performance vessels, Textron Systems developed the TSUNAMI family of products with its trusted CUSV<sup>&reg; </sup>&ndash; Common Unmanned Surface Vehicle - vessel-based autonomy control system, leveraging mature commercial technologies to deliver increased capacity and immediate scale.</p> <p>&ldquo;The TSUNAMI family of vehicles leverage Textron Systems&rsquo; decades of expertise in autonomous systems innovation, coupled with the speed and scalability of Brunswick Corporation&rsquo;s established and globally sustainable production line of vessels,&rdquo; said Ryan Schaffernocker, Senior Vice President Air, Land and Sea Systems. &ldquo;This award establishes a partnership foundation for TSUNAMI USV government-owned, contractor-operated (GOCO) and contractor-owned, contractor-operated (COCO) services, allowing for rapid deployment with a lower cost of ownership for the Navy.&rdquo;</p> <p>Textron Systems is the originator of the CUSV, the Mine Countermeasure (MCM) USV for the U.S. Navy Unmanned Influence Sweep System (UISS) program of record. Most recently, Textron Systems introduced the Multi Mission USV (MMUSV), the 5<sup>th</sup> generation of its CUSV craft designed to expand the Navy&rsquo;s capacity for advanced mission capabilities.</p> <p><strong><br>ABOUT TEXTRON SYSTEMS<br></strong>Textron Systems is a world leader in uncrewed air, surface and land products, services and support founded on the combined expertise in our family of brands that includes Textron Systems, Howe &amp; Howe, Lycoming, and ATAC. We harness the unlimited power of teamwork to solve incredible problems across seven specialized domains: air, land, sea, propulsion, weapon systems, electronic systems and test, training &amp; simulation. From product development and manufacturing to training, operations and support, we integrate and offer ingenious and advanced solutions to support defense, aerospace, and other customer missions. For more information, visit <a href="https://www.textronsystems.com/">www.textronsystems.com.</a></p> <p><strong>ABOUT TEXTRON INC.<br></strong>Textron Inc. is a multi-industry company that leverages its global network of aircraft, defense, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative solutions and services. Textron is known around the world for its powerful brands such as Bell, Cessna, Beechcraft, Pipistrel, Jacobsen, Kautex, Lycoming, E-Z-GO, and Textron Systems. For more information, visit: <a href="https://www.textron.com/">www.textron.com.</a></p> <p><em>Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking statements which may project revenues or describe strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters; these statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements</em><em> including, but not limited to the risks related to U.S. Government contracts as described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.</em></p> <p><em>&nbsp;</em></p> <p><strong>MEDIA CONTACTS<br></strong>Textron Systems<br>Public Relations Team<br>978-657-2020<br><a href="mailto:publicrelations@textronsystems.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener">publicrelations@textronsystems.com</a></p> <p>&nbsp;</p> admin Thu, 04/30/2026 - 09:00 Article Image Article Teaser Description HUNT VALLEY, Md., April 30, 2026 – Textron Systems Corporation, a Textron Inc. (NYSE:TXT) company, announced today a contract award from the Defense Innovation Unit (DIU) to produce and deliver multiple TSUNAMI ® Uncrewed Surface Vessels (USVs), which will be used to support the U.S. Navy Fleet Experimentation (FLEX) exercise in Key West, Florida and provide three months of joint operations with SOUTHCOM and the U.S. Navy Fourth Fleet. Under the contract, Textron Systems will provide the long dwell TSUNAMI interceptor USVs and Field Service Representatives (FSRs) to the FLEX exercise, demonstrating cooperative intelligence, surveillance reconnaissance and targeting (ISR-T) with its Aerosonde ® 4.7 VTOL UAS off a Littoral Combat Ship (LCS). The exercise will also demonstrate manned-unmanned surface warfare with Invariant Corporation’s Surface-to-Air Kinetic Engagement (STAKE) system. The TSUNAMI family of autonomous maritime surface vessels are designed to meet the needs of the U.S. Include Media Contact 0 Press Release ID 3697 Article category textronsystems article year 2026 link to pages /news-releases/news-details/2026/Textron-Systems-Awarded-Contract-From-Defense-Innovation-Unit-DIU-To-Provide-Tsunami-USVS-To-Southcom-And-U-S--Navy-Fourth-Fleet-2026-iQAYM-hxDI/default.aspx Feature Article Press Release Date Thursday, April 30, 2026 - 04:30
